date: 2010-05-05 14:21:56 +1200
author: Paul
title: Kiwi Born iwantmyname Returns From Big O.E.
----

iwantmyname is the world's most innovative domain registrar platform and was developed by our [parent company](http://ideegeo.com) based right here in Wellington, New Zealand. With a new wave of web-based ventures emerging on the New Zealand tech scene and a paradigm shift underway in the way we access distributed computing services globally, it seems like a good time to introduce our domain registrar platform to our home audience.
We first launched iwantmyname into the U.S. market at the end of 2008 with the aim of satisfying a growing demand from customers for a cleaner, quicker way to register domains. As we anticipated, there was an enthusiastic uptake, especially from the web developer and designer community who immediately grasped the benefits of a much more user-friendly interface. Our offer of some free services not provided by many of the big domain registrars sealed the deal in the minds of many.
During 2009 we were hard at work listening to our users, refining the platform technology and looking into other markets. We were soon approached by a partner in the Netherlands who had an existing hosting business and was keen to set up a Dutch language version of the site on a license basis. A German version of iwantmyname followed shortly afterwards. With sites operating successfully in three of the largest global markets for domains, it was time to refocus our attention on the local market.
A lot of our Kiwi friends had begun to discover iwantmyname offshore and we had received an increasing number of requests for a New Zealand dollar denominated site. Like many Kiwis that venture offshore, it was time for iwantmyname to return home. The January Linux Conference proved to be the perfect opportunity to launch the [New Zealand version of iwantmyname](https://iwantmyname.co.nz) and to get some nice feedback from actual users who visited our trade stand at the event.
If you have already used the NZ site - thank-you for supporting a local business! If you only just heard about us, please [try a free account](https://iwantmyname.co.nz/signin) and check out our current [special offers](https://iwantmyname.co.nz/domain-promo-nz). You can even be our [Facebook](http://www.facebook.com/pages/iwantmyname-NZ/118040718222943?ref=ts) friend - we love feedback! Remember we have New Zealand's largest range of domain extensions by far and lightning fast customer support that the big guys can only dream about.
